The Joe Rogan experience.
Dude, first of all, congratulations on your comeback that,
you know, you're a great guy.
And when there's someone I like who loses a bunch of fights in a row
and you get into this skid, it's hard, it's hard to watch.
I can't imagine what it was like being you, you know,
to have a young child and to be dealing with all of this going on.
I mean, it's like losing your top,
but then to come back the way you did against a really
tough guy and a sun sound and get arguably the KU of the year, I mean,
you gotta be feeling pretty good. I feel great. You know.
Know back from the brink, back from the Brinks. I mean that time in my life,
that timeframe period, and, and going through that, you know,
from on top of the world, world champion, uh, to three fight skid, honestly,
it feels like a, a lifetime ago. I feel like I'm just a different person. Um,
where I, where I was at from there, you know,
removed and the things I'm just doing differently, thinking differently,
you know, how I was able to approach the game,
picking myself back up time and time again. I mean,
it's internet is a horrible place to get, get knocked out on, you know,
you got the trolls, this and that. Yeah. You know, it's but besides that point,
you know, um, just coming back to that and having the love for it,
a lot of the times I got to the, and, um, not to make excuses, I was just,
I didn't feel myself. I didn't feel like, um,
and then training and leading up, I felt physically, I'm always ready to fight,
like flip to switch. I'm always physically ready to fight.
I think mentally going into those fights, I was just, um, outta body. I wasn't,
uh, I felt like I was going through the motions. You know,
my passion wasn't there. I wasn't waking up every day. Like,
what's your reason why, like, I was just trying to find that. And, uh,
I think the reason why I always had so many people, um,
infiltrated in how I should train or how I should live or what I should do to
get back there. And really, it wasn't nothing that I needed to learn new.
I didn't have to reinvent the wheel. It was just doing the slate edge theory,
like getting outta your comfort zone. Like you're doing your son of sessions.
Like you're pushing yourself to go in there and, and just be uncomfortable. Um,
you know, so I had to go out there and with that comeback, you know,
I moved to Jersey, the training camp out there. I split time.
Yeah. I wanna talk to you about that. I'm a big fan of Henry too. Mark.
Henry's a bad. He.
He's great. I, I love, I enjoy him so much his passion for his love for it.
He's.
So interesting to too,
his crazy codes and the fact the dude makes pizza on the side.
Dude, I was so nervous going out there cuz I heard of the codes and, and like,
you know, I was with Lance and Lance kind of gave me a little insight on it, on,
on everything. I'm like codes. And I just fight dude.
Like I don't have really set things. I kind of go off of my instincts and,
and game plans and, and he was trying to, you know, brief me on it.
And when I got to the first two weeks, holy,
we go down to his basement and he has like pizza scrolls from the pizzeria where
we have off about 50 things that we're working on, um, before camp. And then,
so what does he write.
Him on boxes.
Pizza boxes, pizza scrolls, like the just, uh,
basically white paper down and it tapes it there to the wall. You have like,
Corey's fight camp. You have, you know,
Frankie's and you all these codes and you have, you know,
he is working with 14 fighters at one time and he knows all the codes and.
All different kinds of fights, too different kinds. Like he's got beat there,
he's got Frankie. It's like all these different.
Yeah. Different styles. And we'll kind of, you know,
what I like about that is he'll try things that beat does Zibi does these crazy
double jump scissor kicks and spinning? You know,
the Russians are really good at spinning, you know? So we threw that into the,
into the game and it's, it's, you know,
it was nice to get that kind of stuff that Frankie's done and had success over
the years. Um, so we meshed that together. Um, he got to know me really well.
Uh, we worked, you know, extensively with Ricardo Mato up there as well. Um,
but yeah, coach Henry is just, uh, there's not, he's obsessed with winning,
but what I loved about him was the first thing that he said to me, um,
was that his job is he's competitive if he wants to win at all costs.
But his job is to get us back to our fair family. And um,
I watched your podcast with, uh,
Andre ward and he said the same thing about his trainer. Mm. And I,
once he said that to me and I have a child now my whole thought process is,
has changed, you know, a transition. And they're like,
I wanna be able to be around for my son's life. I wanna have, you know, um,
speak to my grandchildren. I'm not drilling, you know, that's what coach mark,
I want you drawing when you're, you know, your 50, 60 years old. And,
and I kind, the style of that fight,
I can punch and move and I don't have to bra these guys. Right. You know? And,
um, just reiterating the defensive part of the technical offensive part with
him is I could go in there and hit a six, seven punch combo, dude. He would,
he would care less. He's like, what did you do after you moved?
After your head was off your hands up like that? He's all about defense.
And you know, I think he just helped me out a lot with saying that,
like getting me home to my family safe. Like that's.
What I wanna do. It's such an important approach to be defensively sound. And,
and yet there's so many fighters who don't think like that at all.
They just think about offense. And if you, you know, it's,
it's really like in jujitsu, like HS and Gracie had, uh,
I had a conversation with him once about jujitsu.
And one of the things that he said is that the most important thing is defense.
He said, because I'm always safe. This is what he said. He goes,
I'm always safe. And he goes, inevitably puts you in. I'm always safe. Sure.
Like he lets guys on his back with a full locked in rear naked choke and he'll
start rolling like that. Yeah. He he's always safe. So he never,
and that's interesting. Also I read that about the Donna, her Des squad,
John Donna, hers guys, like, you know, Gordon, Ryan and all those guys,
they'll start in really bad positions all the time.
They train constantly in bad positions. So they're always defensively sound.
And that makes with striking as well.
So many guys are so concerned with offense and you know,
you've had so many spectacular knockouts,
like the Thomas Hall made a fight that it's just like, you probably just want.
Blast guys. True. I get, I gotta like pull the reigns back. Sometimes I'm like,
dude, I'm so amped up. Just get in there and get the fight, you know, like,
forget the walk out, forget the, you know, yeah. I want,
I wanna get the first blow. I wanna get that exchange.
And then that's when the fight Andra sometimes I think I get so amped up that,
you know, taking it back, you know, doing that kind of having defensively sound,
it sets up your offense. Yeah. And my uncle's training me my whole entire life.
And this is what he said, your offense sets up your defense and vice versa,
but okay. Like my offense was so good. And then you get to this point where you,
people are breaking down your footages and your films and you know,
your speed and power, you know, you have to have that.
You have to be defensively sound. If you're so offensive, I'm, I'm,
I'm a forward fighter. I can fight going back. A lot of fighters can't go.
I can feel like I can fight positional. Um, like you said about Dans guys,
Chris Holdsworth, um, has adapted into a phenomenal coach. You know,
he's my right hand guy from martial arts to the T and he makes us start in
horrible positions like that when we're dog dead tired and then get up and we're
shadow spar on each other. And then going back to the ground,
like really fight simulated things to where you're feeling uncomfortable in
positions. Like, yeah, I can go in there and,
and knee wrestle all day during jujitsu. I didn't get tapped out.
I didn't tap anybody. I was safe,
but I didn't put myself in those positions when the fight really happens,
you have to see how, you know, you're grit.
You gotta be able to fight off the hands, fight off the body,
trying to go fight all those bad positions. So you're comfortable,
whatever the fight goes. And I feel like that's where I'm at now.
I've transitioned into that fighter.
I was so green when I got to alpha male and,
and a lot of my speed and power catapulted me to the top where I have to kind of
draw back a little bit and do the correctional errors, not reinvent things,
not do things, but the defensive part of things like, you know,
I was up in training in Jersey and I knew I had the good head slips and
movements, but some of the slips coach was watching me. I would get caught on,
you know, at the first or second, I usually would get hit with a fourth punch,
you know, a combo puncher. So I would slip slip,
and then I would slip down this way and I would get hit with the, the jab.
I'm like every time he's like, dude,
just bring your hand up a little bit when you're slipping to the right,
you moving to the right. And I, you know, how you feel after smart. I'm like,
dude, I feel great. I don't have a headache. I'm not getting my kicked.
Like I'm not getting hit really. Like my defense has gotten so, um,
solid working with him and just constantly. And Chris is the same way.
And my coaches out in alpha are the same with hands up, hands up, hands up.
But I was just, at that point in my life,
I was just so aggressive and angry and, and just, we had so.
Much success.
Attacking that way too at, at doing that. But this last fight, I was honestly,
Joe and I was, you know, doing those faints on a sun sound and coach Henry said,
Hey, don't feel like these faints aren't gonna work.
Like he's defensively sound. He's a great fighter at, at that respect,
keep doing these faints. They will work. I'm fainting this guy, dude,
I'm fainting. I'm fainting. He's not really biting. He's not really coming in,
but I kept on the faints and we ended, you know,
I started catching him with some,
some shots that I saw and his eyes were hurting him.
And then Fay did the Tyson too. His over hand, right. Dropped him.
And I knew once I had that range and the power and speed in his timing that he
would come in with something. So, uh, you know, the Ko the.
Way you did it,
where you dropped your hands and looked to the side and waited for him to move,
oh my God, that was like one of the best walk off Ks ever.
Oh, it felt great.
Cuz the first round I kind of had myself to the cage and coach, man, he,
he probably kicked my being on the cage, like get, get off the cage, get to the,
you know, movement more or movement fighters. You know, he made me, um,
and I know my back was in the cage, but I saw and in the, the round was ending,
but I saw a sunset like, oh, here's my opening. I saw that in the first round.
And then the second round I was staying off, I was moving, I was speed.
I was switched, you know, stances. Um,
but towards the end of I heard the clappers. I'm like, I'm back in swell,
let him come in. I kind of leaned towards and he kind of like fainted on it.
And then he chased me down. When I level changed,
I kept my eye on him and he threw the hook cuz he was going south Paul.
And I knew like I had to hand my hand on the cage and know where my distance was
to he was coming with a kick after I could lean back. I just had my rain,
had my timing. And once when I threw it, man,
I knew when I feel it from the hip, it was, it was over.
Too. And that, that guy is so durable. Mm-hmm <affirmative>, that's the thing.
I mean,
this guy is so tough and so durable for you to catch him and K him like this.
Yeah. That had to feel so good. Catch new episodes.
The Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video and
audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app. Oh two Spotify.
Now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.